1. Who is Anna Hazare?

An ex-army man. Fought 1965 Indo-Pak War



2. What's so special about him?

He built a village Ralegaon Siddhi in Ahamad Nagar district, Maharashtra



3. So what?

This village is a self-sustained model village. Energy is produced in
the village itself from solar power, biofuel and wind mills.

In 1975, it used to be a poverty clad village. Now it is one of the
richest village in India. It has become a model for self-sustained,
eco-friendly & harmonic village.



4. Ok,...?

This guy, Anna Hazare was awarded Padma Bhushan and is a known figure
for his social activities.



5. Really, what is he fighting for?

He is supporting a cause, the amendment of a law to curb corruption in
India.



6. How that can be possible?

He is advocating for a Bil, The Lok Pal Bill (The Citizen Ombudsman
Bill), that will form an autonomous authority who will make politicians
(ministers), beurocrats (IAS/IPS) accountable for their deeds.



8. It's an entirely new thing right..?

In 1972, the bill was proposed by then Law minister Mr. Shanti Bhushan.
Since then it has been neglected by the politicians and some are trying
to change the bill to suit thier theft (corruption).



7. Oh.. He is going on a hunger strike for that whole thing of passing a
Bill ! How can that be possible in such a short span of time?

The first thing he is asking for is: the government should come forward
and announce that the bill is going to be passed.

Next, they make a joint committee to DRAFT the LOK PAL BILL. 50%
goverment participation and 50% public participation. Because you cant
trust the government entirely for making such a bill which does not suit
them.



8. Fine, What will happen when this bill is passed?

A LokPal will be appointed at the centre. He will have an autonomous
charge, say like the Election Commission of India. In each and every
state, Lokayukta will be appointed. The job is to bring all alleged
party to trial in case of corruptions within 1 year. Within 2 years, the
guilty will be punished. Not like, Bofors scam or Bhopal Gas Tragedy
case, that has been going for last 25 years without any result.



9. Is he alone? Whoelse is there in the fight with Anna Hazare?

Baba Ramdev, Ex. IPS Kiran Bedi, Social Activist Swami Agnivesh, RTI
activist Arvind Kejriwal and many more.

Prominent personalities like Aamir Khan is supporting his cause.



10. Ok, got it. What can I do?

At least we can spread the message. How?

Putting status message, links, video, changing profile pics.



At least we can support Anna Hazare and the cause for uprooting
corruption from India.
